### Problem Summary
a binary tree: a camera will cover its parent, itself and its immediate child
return the min number of camera needed

### Approach
This is a dp problem similar to the house robber. 
Also it is a greedy problem.

Apply a recusion function dfs.
We use greedy algorithem here. We put camera at as higher level (closer to root) as possible. 
We use post-order DFS here. This would be O(n) time and O(h) space, where h is height of the tree.
The return value of DFS() has following meanings. 
- 0: there is no camera at this node, and it's not monitored by camera at either of its children, which means neither of child nodes has camera. 
- 1: there is no camera at this node; however, this node is monitored by at least 1 of its children, which means at least 1 of its children has camera. 
- 2: there is a camera at this node.

```cpp
class Solution {
public:
    int minCameraCover(TreeNode* root) {
        int sum=0;
        if(dfs(root,sum)==0)   sum++;// if root is not monitored, we place an additional camera here
        return sum;
    }
    
    int dfs(TreeNode * tr, int& sum){
        if(!tr) return 1;
        int l=dfs(tr->left,sum), r=dfs(tr->right,sum);
        if(l==0||r==0){// if at least 1 child is not monitored, we need to place a camera at current node 
            sum++;
            return 2;
        }else if(l==2||r==2){// if at least 1 child has camera, the current node is monitored. Thus, we don't need to place a camera here 
            return 1;
        }else{// if both children are monitored but have no camera, we don't need to place a camera here. We place the camera at its parent node at the higher level. 
            return 0;
        }
        return -1;// this return statement won't be triggered
    }
};

### comments
- This is hard and I cannot get the solution


