## biweek 41

1684. Count the Number of Consistent Strings
<em>
You are given a string allowed consisting of distinct characters and an array of strings words. A string is consistent if all characters in the string appear in the string allowed.

Return the number of consistent strings in the array words.
</em>

Straightforward using vector

```cpp
    int countConsistentStrings(string allowed, vector<string>& words) {
        vector<bool> v1(26),v2(26);
        for(char c: allowed) v1[c-'a']=1;
        int ans=0;
        for(auto w: words){
            bool b=1;
            for(char c: w){
                if(v1[c-'a']==0) {
                    b=0;
                    break;
                }
            }
            ans+=b;
        }
        return ans;
    }
```

1685. Sum of Absolute Differences in a Sorted Array
<em>
You are given an integer array nums sorted in non-decreasing order.

Build and return an integer array result with the same length as nums such that result[i] is equal to the summation of absolute differences between nums[i] and all the other elements in the array.

In other words, result[i] is equal to sum(|nums[i]-nums[j]|) where 0 <= j < nums.length and j != i (0-indexed).
</em>

using prefix sum
```cpp
    vector<int> getSumAbsoluteDifferences(vector<int>& nums) {
        int prefix=0;
        int tsum=accumulate(begin(nums),end(nums),0);
        vector<int> ans;
        int n=nums.size();
        for(int i=0;i<n;i++){
            ans.push_back(tsum-2*prefix-(n-2*i)*nums[i]);
            prefix+=nums[i];
            
        }
        return ans;
    }
```

1686. Stone Game VI
<em>
Alice and Bob take turns playing a game, with Alice starting first.

There are n stones in a pile. On each player's turn, they can remove a stone from the pile and receive points based on the stone's value. Alice and Bob may value the stones differently.

You are given two integer arrays of length n, aliceValues and bobValues. Each aliceValues[i] and bobValues[i] represents how Alice and Bob, respectively, value the ith stone.

The winner is the person with the most points after all the stones are chosen. If both players have the same amount of points, the game results in a draw. Both players will play optimally.

Determine the result of the game, and:

If Alice wins, return 1.
If Bob wins, return -1.
If the game results in a draw, return 0.
</em>

greedy:
- since n is pretty large. O(N^2) dp approach will TLE.
we may need to consider greedy approach using sort O(nlogn)
- we need to conclude that the target is to maximize the score difference between A and B.

assume we have (a,b) and (c,d)
if A takes a, B take d optimally:
a-d>b-c  ->  a+b>c+d, so we need sort using combined value.

Note the object is not to make most points, but to guarantee that he wins.

for example (6,9),(3,12),(2,1)
A takes (6,2), B will get 12.
A takes (3,2), B will get 9.
```cpp
    int stoneGameVI(vector<int>& A, vector<int>& B) {
        vector<vector<int>> C;
        int res[2] = {0, 0}, n = A.size();
        for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i)
            C.push_back({A[i] + B[i], A[i], B[i]});
        sort(begin(C), end(C));
        for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i)
            res[i % 2] += C[n - i - 1][i % 2+1];
        return res[0] == res[1] ? 0: res[0] > res[1] ? 1 : -1;
    }
```
sort (equal number does not matter and will not produce difference).
A score:
=sum(Ai)-Sum(Bj) i and j are mutual exclusive
=Sum(Ai)-Sum(Bj)+Sum(Bi)-Sum(Bi)
=Sum(Ai+Bi)-Sum(B)

other intuition:
Alice can consider if he takes it, get a points
if not take it, get -b points. And the difference is a+b-c

see zero-sum game in game theory

1687. Delivering Boxes from Storage to Ports
<em>
You have the task of delivering some boxes from storage to their ports using only one ship. However, this ship has a limit on the number of boxes and the total weight that it can carry.

You are given an array boxes, where boxes[i] = [ports​​i​, weighti], and three integers portsCount, maxBoxes, and maxWeight.

ports​​i is the port where you need to deliver the ith box and weightsi is the weight of the ith box.
portsCount is the number of ports.
maxBoxes and maxWeight are the respective box and weight limits of the ship.
The boxes need to be delivered in the order they are given. The ship will follow these steps:

The ship will take some number of boxes from the boxes queue, not violating the maxBoxes and maxWeight constraints.
For each loaded box in order, the ship will make a trip to the port the box needs to be delivered to and deliver it. If the ship is already at the correct port, no trip is needed, and the box can immediately be delivered.
The ship then makes a return trip to storage to take more boxes from the queue.
The ship must end at storage after all the boxes have been delivered.

Return the minimum number of trips the ship needs to make to deliver all boxes to their respective ports.
</em>
dp + sliding window
greedy: load as many box as possible on ship
pop old order + greedy (when same dest order is popped, then pop all same dest orders).

```cpp
    int boxDelivering(vector<vector<int>>& A, int portsCount, int B, int W) {
        int n = A.size(), need = 0, j = 0, lastj = 0;
        vector<int> dp(n + 1, 1000001);
        dp[0] = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < n; ++i) {
            while (j < n && B > 0 && W >= A[j][1]) {
                B -= 1;
                W -= A[j][1];
                if (j == 0 || A[j][0] != A[j - 1][0]) {
                    lastj = j;
                    need++;
                }
                j++;
            }
            dp[j] = min(dp[j], dp[i] + need + 1);
            dp[lastj] = min(dp[lastj], dp[i] + need);
            B += 1;
            W += A[i][1];
            if (i == n - 1 || A[i][0] != A[i + 1][0]) {
                need--;
            }
        }
        return dp[n];
    }
```	
