## contest 217

### 1672. Richest customer wealth
<em>
You are given an m x n integer grid accounts where accounts[i][j] is the amount of money the i​​​​​​​​​​​th​​​​ customer has in the j​​​​​​​​​​​th​​​​ bank. Return the wealth that the richest customer has.

A customer's wealth is the amount of money they have in all their bank accounts. The richest customer is the customer that has the maximum wealth.
</em>

trivial:

```cpp
    int maximumWealth(vector<vector<int>>& accounts) {
        int ans=0;
        for(auto r: accounts){
            ans=max(ans,accumulate(begin(r),end(r),0));
        }
        return ans;
    }
```

### 1673. Find the Most Competitive Subsequence
<em>
Given an integer array nums and a positive integer k, return the most competitive subsequence of nums of size k.

An array's subsequence is a resulting sequence obtained by erasing some (possibly zero) elements from the array.

We define that a subsequence a is more competitive than a subsequence b (of the same length) if in the first position where a and b differ, subsequence a has a number less than the corresponding number in b. For example, [1,3,4] is more competitive than [1,3,5] because the first position they differ is at the final number, and 4 is less than 5.
</em>

Greedy:
equivalent to find the smallest sequence with length = k.
the min of the first n-k-1 element as the first element. Then discard all previous elements including the min.
so it is now to find the sliding minimum. using stack or deque to get O(N)
```cpp
    vector<int> mostCompetitive(vector<int>& nums, int k) {
        vector<int> ans; //smallest lex subsequence
        //moving window first is the min from 0 to n-k
        int i=0,j=0,n=nums.size();
        int last=-1,mn=INT_MAX;
        deque<int> dq;
        for(int i=0;i<n;i++){
            while(dq.size() && nums[dq.back()]>nums[i]) dq.pop_back();
            dq.push_back(i);
            if(i+k>=n){
                while(dq.size() && dq.front()<=last) dq.pop_front();
                ans.push_back(nums[dq.front()]);
                last=dq.front();
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
```

### 1674. Minimum Moves to Make Array Complementary
<em>
You are given an integer array nums of even length n and an integer limit. In one move, you can replace any integer from nums with another integer between 1 and limit, inclusive.

The array nums is complementary if for all indices i (0-indexed), nums[i] + nums[n - 1 - i] equals the same number. For example, the array [1,2,3,4] is complementary because for all indices i, nums[i] + nums[n - 1 - i] = 5.

Return the minimum number of moves required to make nums complementary.
Constraints:

n == nums.length
2 <= n <= 10^5
1 <= nums[i] <= limit <= 10^5
n is even.
</em>

Critical: the target sum of each pair is limited in the range [2,2*limit]
brutal force: loop over all target from 2 to 2*limit and check the min moves O(N^2) and will TLE. but it is a good start.
a+b, a and b in the range [1,L], a+b in the range [2,2*L]
given target sum T in the range [2,2*L]: (now is the tricky part to determine number of moves needed):
a+b=S.
- S=T, no changes needed
- S!=T: 
change a, not change b: T-b shall be in [1,limit]
change b, not change a: T-a shall be in [1,limit]
```cpp
    int minMoves(vector<int>& nums, int limit) {
        //sum in the range [2,2*limit]
        int n=nums.size(),ans=n;
        for(int t=2;t<=2*limit;t++){
            int i=0,j=n-1,cnt=0;
            while(i<j){
                int a=nums[i],b=nums[j];
                if(a>b) swap(a,b);
                int sum=a+b;
                if(sum!=t){ //replace one or two a+b
                    if((t-a>=1 && t-a<=limit) || (t-b>=1 && t-b<=limit)) cnt+=1;
                    else cnt+=2;
                }
                i++,j--;
            }
            ans=min(ans,cnt);
        }
        return ans;
    }
```	
or better brutal force easier to optimize:
```cpp
    int minMoves(vector<int>& nums, int limit) {
        //sum in the range [2,2*limit]
        int n=nums.size(),ans=n;
		vector<int> moves(2*limit+1);
        moves[0]=moves[1]=n;
		for(int i=0;i<n/2;i++){
			int a=nums[i],b=nums[n-1-i];
			for(int t=2;t<=2*limit;t++){
				if(a+b!=t){
                    if((t-a>=1 && t-a<=limit) || (t-b>=1 && t-b<=limit)) moves[t]+=1;
                    else moves[t]+=2;
				}
			}
		}
        
		for(int i: moves) ans=min(ans,i);//,cout<<i<<" ";
		return ans;
	}
```	
Optimization:
- for each pair, we can calculate the min moves for each target in [2,2*limit]
- store the movement changes.
- accumulate the movement for all pairs. (similar using hashmap to reduce O(N))
For each pair of numbers (at index i and N - 1 - i) l and r:

After only one move (change one of the numbers to a number between 1 and limit)
The minimum sum we can get is (min(l, r) + 1) (let this be oneMoveMin)
The maximum sum we can get is (max(l, r) + limit) (let this be oneMoveMax)
We need no move to get (l + r) (let this be justGood)
Therefore, to get:

[~, oneMoveMin - 1] - 2 moves
[oneMoveMin, justGood-1] - 1 move
[justGood] - 0 move
[justGood + 1, oneMoveMax] - 1 move
[oneMoveMax + 1, ~] - 2 moves

For each pair of numbers

We start with 2 moves (using 2 moves we can reach anything)
From oneMoveMin we need 1 less move
From justGood we need another 1 less move
From justGood + 1 we need 1 more move
From oneMoveMax + 1 we need another 1 more move
(note we are using a difference array i.e move[i]-move[i-1], and then we recover
the array using accumulate sum or prefix sum. Using diff array, we efficiently reduce O(N) to O(1), This is more apparent if we reverse the loop in the brutal force solution, see the 2nd brutal force approach):

```cpp
int minMoves(vector<int>& nums, int limit) {
    int N = nums.size();
    vector<int> diff(limit*2 + 2, 0);
    for (int i = 0; i < N/2; ++i) {
        int l = nums[i], r = nums[N-1-i];
        --diff[min(l, r) + 1];
        --diff[l + r];
        ++diff[l + r + 1];
        ++diff[max(l, r) + limit + 1];
    }
    int ans = N, curr = N; //max n movements.
    for (int i = 2; i <= limit*2; ++i) {
        curr += diff[i];
        ans = min(ans, curr);
    }
    return ans;
}
```

### 1675. Minimize Deviation in Array
<em>
You are given an array nums of n positive integers.

You can perform two types of operations on any element of the array any number of times:

If the element is even, divide it by 2.
For example, if the array is [1,2,3,4], then you can do this operation on the last element, and the array will be [1,2,3,2].
If the element is odd, multiply it by 2.
For example, if the array is [1,2,3,4], then you can do this operation on the first element, and the array will be [2,2,3,4].
The deviation of the array is the maximum difference between any two elements in the array.

Return the minimum deviation the array can have after performing some number of operations.
n = nums.length
2 <= n <= 10^5
1 <= nums[i] <= 10^9
</em>
observation:
- odd can only be doubled once. even can be halved until becomes odd.
- each number are bounded and only have several discrete choices. 
for example: 12 can change to [12,6,3], and 5 can be [5,10]
try all path to get the min using dfs and we can get the minimum.
The complexity would be exponential.

we find the upper bound and lower bound for every elements, turning each element into an interval [lower, upper]. We then take the lower bound value for each interval to start with. While we still can, we double the smallest value, updating the final result along the way.

Thus two directions are reduced to one direction only which greatly simplified the problem.

In this case, we can use a heap to do it.
equivalent: change the array into all odd, only *2 is allowed.
or change the array into all even, only /2 is allowed.

Very valuable approach: two directions are too complicated and try to simplified it to one direction only.

```cpp
    int minimumDeviation(vector<int>& nums) {
        set<int>s;
        for(int i=0;i<nums.size();i++){
            s.insert(nums[i]%2==0?nums[i]:nums[i]*2);//insert even directly and odd with one time multiplication and it will become even.
        }
        int diff=*s.rbegin()-*s.begin();
        while(*s.rbegin()%2==0){//run the loop untill difference is minimized
            int x=*s.rbegin();
            s.erase(x);
            s.insert(x/2);
            diff = min(diff,*s.rbegin()-*s.begin());
        }
        return diff;
    }
```	



 
 