### contest 230

1773. Count Items Matching a Rule
<em>
You are given an array items, where each items[i] = [typei, colori, namei] describes the type, color, and name of the ith item. You are also given a rule represented by two strings, ruleKey and ruleValue.

The ith item is said to match the rule if one of the following is true:

ruleKey == "type" and ruleValue == typei.
ruleKey == "color" and ruleValue == colori.
ruleKey == "name" and ruleValue == namei.
Return the number of items that match the given rule.
</em>

```
    int countMatches(vector<vector<string>>& items, string ruleKey, string ruleValue) {
        int ans=0;
        int ind=0;
        if(ruleKey=="type") ind=0;
        else if(ruleKey=="color") ind=1;
        else ind=2;
        for(auto t: items){
            if(t[ind]==ruleValue) ans++;
        }
        return ans;
    }
```

1780. Check if Number is a Sum of Powers of Three
<em>
Given an integer n, return true if it is possible to represent n as the sum of distinct powers of three. Otherwise, return false.

An integer y is a power of three if there exists an integer x such that y == 3x.
</em>

base-3 problem

```
    bool checkPowersOfThree(int n) {
        //base 3 with only coeff of 0 and 1
        while(n){
            int d=n%3;
            n/=3;
            if(d>1) return 0;
        }
        return 1;
    }
```

1781. Sum of Beauty of All Substrings
<em>
The beauty of a string is the difference in frequencies between the most frequent and least frequent characters.

For example, the beauty of "abaacc" is 3 - 1 = 2.
Given a string s, return the sum of beauty of all of its substrings.	
</em>

brute force: try all substr between i,j

```
    int beautySum(string s) {
        //single char contributes nothing.
        int ans=0,n=s.size();
        for(int i=0;i<n;i++){ //ending with i
            vector<int> cnt(26);
            
            for(int j=i;j<n;j++){
                cnt[s[j]-'a']++;
                int mn=n,mx=0;
                for(int t: cnt) {
                    if(t) mn=min(mn,t),mx=max(mx,t);
                }
                ans+=mx-mn;
            }
        }
        return ans;
    }
```

1776. Car Fleet II
<em>
There are n cars traveling at different speeds in the same direction along a one-lane road. You are given an array cars of length n, where cars[i] = [positioni, speedi] represents:

positioni is the distance between the ith car and the beginning of the road in meters. It is guaranteed that positioni < positioni+1.
speedi is the initial speed of the ith car in meters per second.
For simplicity, cars can be considered as points moving along the number line. Two cars collide when they occupy the same position. Once a car collides with another car, they unite and form a single car fleet. The cars in the formed fleet will have the same position and the same speed, which is the initial speed of the slowest car in the fleet.

Return an array answer, where answer[i] is the time, in seconds, at which the ith car collides with the next car, or -1 if the car does not collide with the next car. Answers within 10-5 of the actual answers are accepted.

 Input: cars = [[3,4],[5,4],[6,3],[9,1]]
Output: [2.00000,1.00000,1.50000,-1.00000]
</em>

seems from right to left is convenient using stack
or more intuitive decreasing speed in the stack.

[9,1,0]: position, vel, time
[6,3,0]: catch at t=(9-6)/(3-1)=1.5 and we change stack top to [6+3*1.5,1,1.5]
[6,3,0],[6,1,1.5]
check [5,4,0], t=(6-5)/(4-3)=1, replace stack top to [5+4,3,1.0]
stack is now [5,4,0],[9,3,1.0],[10.5,1,1.5]
add [3,4,0]: it will not catch (5,4,0) pop it
now (3,4,0] compare with (9,3,1.0) --> (7,4,1.0),(9,3,1.0) t=(9-7)/(4-3)=2.0

so using monotonic stack. the stack will keep the cars with increasing speed (so they will not collide) (similar to next smaller)

Process cars right-to-left, and maintain a stack s of cars with monotonically increasing speeds:

If the current car is slower than the slowest car up ahead - it won't collide, and the stack becomes empty.
If there are cars in the stack, the current car sure would collide. Also, all cars in the stack - except the first one - have collided at some point res[i].

So, we go from the top of the stack (fastest car) and check if we collide with it before it collides with cars up ahead. If we collide with that car after it collided, we can ignore that car and also remote it from the stack.

```
vector<double> getCollisionTimes(vector<vector<int>>& c) {
    auto col_time = [&](int i, int j) { 
        return (double)(c[i][0] - c[j][0]) / (c[j][1] - c[i][1]); 
    };
    vector<double> res(c.size(), -1), s;
    for (int i = c.size() - 1; i >= 0; --i) {
        while (!s.empty() && (c[i][1] <= c[s.back()][1] || 
                              (s.size() > 1 && col_time(i, s.back()) >= res[s.back()])))
            s.pop_back();
        res[i] = s.empty() ? -1 : col_time(i, s.back());
        s.push_back(i);
    }
    return res;
}
```
	