## contest 208

### 1598. Crawler Log Folder
<em>
The Leetcode file system keeps a log each time some user performs a change folder operation.

The operations are described below:

"../" : Move to the parent folder of the current folder. (If you are already in the main folder, remain in the same folder).
"./" : Remain in the same folder.
"x/" : Move to the child folder named x (This folder is guaranteed to always exist).
You are given a list of strings logs where logs[i] is the operation performed by the user at the ith step.

The file system starts in the main folder, then the operations in logs are performed.

Return the minimum number of operations needed to go back to the main folder after the change folder operations.
</em>

```cpp
    int minOperations(vector<string>& logs) {
        int ans=0;
        int level=0;
        for(auto s: logs){
            s.pop_back();
            if(s==".");
            else if(s=="..") {level--;if(level<0) level=0;}
            else level++;
        }
        return level;
    }
```

### 1599. Maximum Profit of Operating a Centennial Wheel
<em>
You are the operator of a Centennial Wheel that has four gondolas, and each gondola has room for up to four people. You have the ability to rotate the gondolas counterclockwise, which costs you runningCost dollars.

You are given an array customers of length n where customers[i] is the number of new customers arriving just before the ith rotation (0-indexed). This means you must rotate the wheel i times before customers[i] arrive. Each customer pays boardingCost dollars when they board on the gondola closest to the ground and will exit once that gondola reaches the ground again.

You can stop the wheel at any time, including before serving all customers. If you decide to stop serving customers, all subsequent rotations are free in order to get all the customers down safely. Note that if there are currently more than four customers waiting at the wheel, only four will board the gondola, and the rest will wait for the next rotation.

Return the minimum number of rotations you need to perform to maximize your profit. If there is no scenario where the profit is positive, return -1.

 
</em>

tracking the rotation and profit.

```cpp
    int minOperationsMaxProfit(vector<int>& customers, int boardingCost, int runningCost) {
        //we can stop anytime
        int ans=0,num_rot=0,max_prof=INT_MIN;
        //max profit
        int num_wait=0,profit=0;
        int i=0;
        
        while(num_wait || i<customers.size()) {//for(int i: customers){
            num_wait+=i<customers.size()?customers[i]:0;
            int nboard=num_wait<4?num_wait:4;
            profit+=nboard*boardingCost-runningCost;

            if(profit>max_prof){
                ans=i+1;
                max_prof=profit;
            }
            //max_prof=max(max_prof,profit);
            num_wait-=nboard;
            i++;
        }
        return max_prof<0?-1:ans;
    }
```
	
### 1600. Throne Inheritance
<em>
A kingdom consists of a king, his children, his grandchildren, and so on. Every once in a while, someone in the family dies or a child is born.

The kingdom has a well-defined order of inheritance that consists of the king as the first member. Let's define the recursive function Successor(x, curOrder), which given a person x and the inheritance order so far, returns who should be the next person after x in the order of inheritance.

Successor(x, curOrder):
    if x has no children or all of x's children are in curOrder:
        if x is the king return null
        else return Successor(x's parent, curOrder)
    else return x's oldest child who's not in curOrder
For example, assume we have a kingdom that consists of the king, his children Alice and Bob (Alice is older than Bob), and finally Alice's son Jack.

In the beginning, curOrder will be ["king"].
Calling Successor(king, curOrder) will return Alice, so we append to curOrder to get ["king", "Alice"].
Calling Successor(Alice, curOrder) will return Jack, so we append to curOrder to get ["king", "Alice", "Jack"].
Calling Successor(Jack, curOrder) will return Bob, so we append to curOrder to get ["king", "Alice", "Jack", "Bob"].
Calling Successor(Bob, curOrder) will return null. Thus the order of inheritance will be ["king", "Alice", "Jack", "Bob"].
Using the above function, we can always obtain a unique order of inheritance.

Implement the ThroneInheritance class:

ThroneInheritance(string kingName) Initializes an object of the ThroneInheritance class. The name of the king is given as part of the constructor.
void birth(string parentName, string childName) Indicates that parentName gave birth to childName.
void death(string name) Indicates the death of name. The death of the person doesn't affect the Successor function nor the current inheritance order. You can treat it as just marking the person as dead.
string[] getInheritanceOrder() Returns a list representing the current order of inheritance excluding dead people.
 </em>
 
 typical dfs, need to carry information of live or death
 using one hashmap or two hashmap
 ```cpp
     unordered_map<string,pair<bool,vector<pair<bool,string>>>> mp;
    string king;
    ThroneInheritance(string kingName) {
        mp[kingName]={0,{}};
        king=kingName;
    }
    
    void birth(string parentName, string childName) {
        mp[childName]={0,{}};
        mp[parentName].second.push_back({0,childName});
    }
    
    void death(string name) {
        mp[name].first=1;
    }
    
    vector<string> getInheritanceOrder() {
        //dfs search
        vector<string> ans;
        dfs(king,ans);
        return ans;
    }
    void dfs(string& root,vector<string>& ans){
        //if(mp[root].second.empty()) return;
        if(mp[root].first==0) ans.push_back(root);
        for(auto t: mp[root].second){
            dfs(t.second,ans);
        }
    }
```

### 1601. Maximum Number of Achievable Transfer Requests
<em>
We have n buildings numbered from 0 to n - 1. Each building has a number of employees. It's transfer season, and some employees want to change the building they reside in.

You are given an array requests where requests[i] = [fromi, toi] represents an employee's request to transfer from building fromi to building toi.

All buildings are full, so a list of requests is achievable only if for each building, the net change in employee transfers is zero. This means the number of employees leaving is equal to the number of employees moving in. For example if n = 3 and two employees are leaving building 0, one is leaving building 1, and one is leaving building 2, there should be two employees moving to building 0, one employee moving to building 1, and one employee moving to building 2.

Return the maximum number of achievable requests.
</em>
since number of requests <20, brutal force: bitmask from 0 to ffff and check all combinations. use or not use.

```cpp
    int maximumRequests(int n, vector<vector<int>>& requests) {
        //brutal force backtracking
        vector<int> inout(n);
        int ans=0;
        backtrack(requests,inout,ans,0,0);
        return ans;
    }
    void backtrack(vector<vector<int>>& req,vector<int>& cnt,int& ans,int start,int tsum){
        if(start==req.size()){
            for(int i: cnt) if(i) return;
            ans=max(ans,tsum);
            return;
        }
        
        cnt[req[start][0]]--;
        cnt[req[start][1]]++;
        backtrack(req,cnt,ans,start+1,tsum+1); //add this edge
        cnt[req[start][0]]++;
        cnt[req[start][1]]--;
        backtrack(req,cnt,ans,start+1,tsum); //not add this edge
    }
```

	
 