## contest 216

1662. Check If Two String Arrays are Equivalent
<em>
Given two string arrays word1 and word2, return true if the two arrays represent the same string, and false otherwise.

A string is represented by an array if the array elements concatenated in order forms the string.
</em>

```cpp
    bool arrayStringsAreEqual(vector<string>& word1, vector<string>& word2) {
        string s1,s2;
        for(auto w: word1) s1+=w;
        for(auto w: word2) s2+=w;
        return s1==s2;
    }
```
or we can compare and remove using two pointer

1663. Smallest String With A Given Numeric Value
<em>
The numeric value of a lowercase character is defined as its position (1-indexed) in the alphabet, so the numeric value of a is 1, the numeric value of b is 2, the numeric value of c is 3, and so on.

The numeric value of a string consisting of lowercase characters is defined as the sum of its characters' numeric values. For example, the numeric value of the string "abe" is equal to 1 + 2 + 5 = 8.

You are given two integers n and k. Return the lexicographically smallest string with length equal to n and numeric value equal to k.

Note that a string x is lexicographically smaller than string y if x comes before y in dictionary order, that is, either x is a prefix of y, or if i is the first position such that x[i] != y[i], then x[i] comes before y[i] in alphabetic order.

 </em>
 
 greedy approach:
 fill all with 'a' first, and then try to fill 'z' from right.
 
 ```cpp
     string getSmallestString(int n, int k) {
        //reduced to 26 numbers, sum(c*i)==k
        //greedy: use 'a...a' of length k
        //and then increment from right
        string ans;
        ans.append(n,'a');
        k-=n;
        int j=n-1;
        for(char c='z';c>'a';c--){
            int add=c-'a';
            int mx=k/add;
            k-=mx*add;
            while(mx--) ans[j--]=c;
        }
        return ans;
    }
```

1664. Ways to Make a Fair Array
<em>
You are given an integer array nums. You can choose exactly one index (0-indexed) and remove the element. Notice that the index of the elements may change after the removal.

For example, if nums = [6,1,7,4,1]:

Choosing to remove index 1 results in nums = [6,7,4,1].
Choosing to remove index 2 results in nums = [6,1,4,1].
Choosing to remove index 4 results in nums = [6,1,7,4].
An array is fair if the sum of the odd-indexed values equals the sum of the even-indexed values.

Return the number of indices that you could choose such that after the removal, nums is fair.
Constraints:

1 <= nums.length <= 105
1 <= nums[i] <= 104
</em>

at the removal point, the right side odd and even swaps.
if we assign negative to odd, then it becomes prefix sum.

```cpp
    int waysToMakeFair(vector<int>& nums) {
        //int tsum=accumulate(begin(nums),end(nums),0);
        //tsum-a shall at least to be even.
        //mark the odd index negative, even index positive
        //we shall get the tsum=0
        int ans=0;
        int n=nums.size();
        for(int i=1;i<n;i+=2) nums[i]*=-1;
        
        vector<int> odd(n); //use even-odd
        //prefix sum
        for(int i=0;i<n;i++){
            odd[i]=(i?odd[i-1]:0)+nums[i];
        }
        int even=0;
        for(int i=n-1;i>=0;i--){
            even+=nums[i];
            if(even==odd[i]) ans++;
        }
        return ans;
    }
```	

1665. Minimum Initial Energy to Finish Tasks
<em>
You are given an array tasks where tasks[i] = [actuali, minimumi]:

actuali is the actual amount of energy you spend to finish the ith task.
minimumi is the minimum amount of energy you require to begin the ith task.
For example, if the task is [10, 12] and your current energy is 11, you cannot start this task. However, if your current energy is 13, you can complete this task, and your energy will be 3 after finishing it.

You can finish the tasks in any order you like.

Return the minimum initial amount of energy you will need to finish all the tasks.
Constraints:

1 <= tasks.length <= 105
1 <= actual​i <= minimumi <= 104
</em>

greedy and math problem:
given a target Initial energy (fixed), then if we want to complete as much as possible tasks, we shall finish the task saving the most.

```cpp
    int minimumEffort(vector<vector<int>>& A) {
        int res = 0;
        for (auto &a : A)
            a[0] = a[1] - a[0];
        sort(A.begin(), A.end());
        for (auto &a : A)
            res = max(res + a[1] - a[0], a[1]);
        return res;
    }

```




 

	

 