### Problem Summary
Given N different songs, create a playlist with L songs, requiring:

each song play at least one time

same song can be played only if K other songs has played
0 <= K < N <= L <= 100

Ask: number of possible playlist (mod 1e9+7)

### Analysis
seems no clue?

It is natural to define the problem as dp(n,l,k) with n songs, l in list, with k constraints.

We need to find how we can build the solution from sub-problems. That is the essence of DP technique.

if only N-1 songs are used in l-1 songs, then the last song can be anyone (not appeared yet)
dp[n,l,k]=n*dp[n-1,l-1,k]

if N songs are used in l-1 songs, then the previous k songs cannot be placed at the list end, which we have N-K choices
dp[n,l,k]=(n-k)*dp[n,l-1,k]

K dimension can be removed.

The answer is the sum of the two: dp[n,l,k]=n*dp[n-1, l-1, k]+(n-k)*dp[n, l-1, k], which is simplified to:

dp[n,l]=dp[n-1,l-1] * n+dp[n,l-1] * (n-k). 

Update only depends on left and up cell.

And the final answer is dp[N,L]

**Boundary condition:**
n=0, there is only 0 playlist dp[0,l]=0 but dp[0,0]=1 (empty vs empty)

since l>=n, we are only updating the upper triangle, and dp[n,n] is the boundary.

dp[n,n]=n! (when n songs and list is also n, any permutation is fine)

### Implementation
```cpp
    int numMusicPlaylists(int N, int L, int K) {
        vector<vector<long long>> dp(N+1,vector<long long>(L+1));
        dp[0][0]=1;
        int mod=1e9+7;
        for(int i=1;i<=N;i++) dp[i][i]=(dp[i-1][i-1]*i)%mod;
        for(int n=1;n<=N;n++)
        {
            for(int l=n+1;l<=L;l++)
            {
                dp[n][l]=(n*dp[n-1][l-1])%mod;
                if(n>K) dp[n][l]+=((n-K)*dp[n][l-1])%mod;
                dp[n][l]%=mod;
            }
        }
        return dp[N][L];
    }
```

### comments
- has to use long long for the type since dp[n,l]+= will overflow and we have no way to avoid that
- make sure n>K is added otherwise it will add a negative value
- The main difficulty of the problem is the thinking process or the dp methodology.
